# HHA-504 Final Project: Cloud Integration Mini-Capstone

## TITLE: Optimizing Patient Experience Through Wait Time Prediction 

## Case Description 

Outpatient healthcare facilities are always scrutinized by patient experience, where wait time stands out as a critical especially for patients with a scheduled doctor's appointment. Long wait times are often frustrating and diminish patient satisfaction, lead to missed appointments, and contribute to operational inefficiencies within the clinic. In today’s healthcare environment, optimizing resources and prioritizing patient engagement are important, and relying on historical data and informal insights is no longer enough. This paper proposes to attempt to build a comprehensive cloud-based solution architecture designed to address this challenge by providing a prediction of patient wait times from check-in to provider start time. The primary goal is to provide patients with accurate, real-time estimates of their expected wait times so they can better plan their day, while also equipping clinic leadership with actionable insights to support continuous improvement and a more effective resource for scheduling. 

  
The core problem is the unpredictable and often excessive delay experienced by patients waiting to see a provider after checking in for a scheduled appointment. The patient has built up anxiety, worried about results or what will be told to them, only to end up waiting long period of time, leaving the patient dissatisfied. The problem that is trying to be solved is the lack of transparency and predictability in patient wait times by building a system to predict the time a patient will see their doctor in real time, communicating this estimate to the patient, as well as providing insight to the staff.

Users who will be the patients who will receive real-time estimated wait times, all in a cell phone app. Clinic staff, such as the front desk, as well as the clinical team. They will have input check-in times and monitor clinic flow by using a dashboard to proactively manage delays. Clinic Management that relies on aggregated daily/weekly data to streamline optimized provider schedules and staffing levels.The system relies on three distinct types of data, securely sourced from the outpatient to facility system, primarily from the Electronic Health Record (EHR).  Data source summary organized by the clinic’s EHR system. The most critical data for a wait time prediction is real-time data, which will help capture patient timestamps, such as when the patient checked in and when the provider saw the patient, all by using API events to calculate status and historical wait times. This would be supplemented by scheduled batch data that provides appointment context, such as appointment types or expected duration. Then, reference data, such as using a provider schedule, background data, will help support planning. The data will be stripped of its identifiers as soon as it is uploaded to the cloud, making sure it is in compliance while supporting real-time predictions.
